# Photonics 1 Lesson 16
- Optical Tweezers
  - Pick up objects with light?
- Thermal Detectors
  - Respond to broad wavelengths of light, including infrared, which is different than the specific wavelengths of the photodetectors
  - Bolometers and Thermistors
    - Change resistance with temperature
  - Thermocouplers 
    - Sense light by creating a voltage from heating a junction between two dissimilar materials
- Typically a thermal detector has an absorbing layer called a thermometer, with a conductor pulling heat away and an insulator to allow a substrate to test the temp
- Bolometers
  - Made of metals, semiconductors, superconductors, and Mott-insulators
  - Semi-> lower resistance with added heat
  - Metal-> higher resistance with added heat
  - Superconductor-> no resistance at critical temp, any higher and you have resistance, think of the nanowires in [[Semester 4/Photonics Notes/Class Notes/class14]]
  - Mott-insulator-> similar to superconductors, no resistance at a high temp, any lower and it has resistance
  - This is given by the formula
    - $$\rho_r=\rho_0(1+\alpha\cdot\Delta T)$$
    - resistance increases from a base relative to the temperature coefficient and temperature
    - temperature coefficient can be positive or negative, metal has positive and semiconductor has negative
  - Microbolometers can be put in an array to "create" an image of something in IR light
- Seebeck effect
  - Had a compass, when heated it would move, therefore there must be a force that interacted with the magnet
  - With any two metals at a junction, when heated, you will be creating a voltage across that junction which will drive a current.
  - This is (later) found to be related to the Fermi-Dirac distribution, where a gradient of temperature will make high energy at the hot end, low energy at the cool end, causing a natural migration of particles towards the cold side.
  - Now you have a voltage difference where the cool side has a large collection of particles, and the hot side has a small collection of particles, meaning there's a force pushing particles creating a current (voltage).
  - You can connect a wire of one material to two wires of different materials, heating one junction and cooling the other, and you will create a "voltage source", where different materials have different Seebeck-coefficients.
  - Types labeled with letters like E, S, W, relate to the temperature difference that leads to small voltage shifts
  - Put many of these in series and you get a large voltage that you can easily measure.
- Pyroelectric Detectors
  - Uses materials that have an inherent polarity due to the crystal structure.
  - When you heat these materials you create a shift in polarity, pushing a charge to the surface, however it is short lived and will stay gone after the first bit of time.
  - To fix this, you just put a fan in front to allow light in pulses to emit a constant change in voltage of the material.
  - These are inexpensive and quicky detect microkelvin temp changes over a large spectral bandwidth
- Thomson Effect (Lord Kelvin)
  - Copper wire, hot in middle and cold on sides, a current in the wire will pick up some of the heat and transport it to the other end.
  - You can use this to create voltage from a heat source, or use voltage to cool a junction.
- Peltier Effect
  - For electric current flowing through a junction of two dissimilar conductors, causes heat to be absorbed at one and released at the other.
  - Similar to the Thomson Effect, you can create a voltage through applying heat, or create a temp shift through applying voltage.
- Metal-Organic Chemical Vapor Deposition (MOCVD)
  - To deposit indium, make a gas of indium and methyl group, when you heat it the methane leaves and the indium stays, can be used to deposit single atoms onto a surface
  - Samsung did this in an array of n- and p-type materials in series of layers (1000s) to try and create a solid state refrigerator. This would make a large cooling effect through a voltage applied.
- Optical Tweezers
  - Tightly focused laser, in the focal region, you can trap a microscoping/nanoscopic particles (even atoms).
  - Due to the gaussian beam distribution, a dielectric material will produce dipoles that want to stay in the center of the beam x/y and in the waist z
  - Basically if the particle moves +x, the light will feel a force in the +x, and due to newton it will have a reaction force on the particle in the -x.
  - 


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Semester 4/Photonics Notes/Class Notes/class14]: class14.md "Photonics 1 Lesson 14"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
